So Linear Predictive Coding,
or LPC, is the model that
is most commonly used in speech coding.
So let's see how we can compute all of
these parameters using the LPC model.
[COUGH] The current sample x(n) is related
to the past samples,
x(n-i) and some input.
So the value we use,
typically p past samples,
and p is the order of the LPC.
In practice we use 8 to 16 samples,
so the LPC order is anywhere
from 8 to 16 [COUGH].
Given a speech segment
of length n [COUGH],
we want to compute all these parameters.
a(i), G, the gain factor, and the input.
So typically we choose
N as corresponding to
about 20 milliseconds of speech.
The duration over which
it is reasonable to
assume that speech is
short term stationary and
wide band signals, n is 320.
[COUGH] So
the LPC filter itself is a(i) and
I think that's all I need
to say about this slide.
Let's move to the next one.
So in the LPC formulation,
since we assume that
we can fairly faithfully
represent the past sample
using the current sample
using P past samples,
there is an error that we make.
And this is really
the ignorance of the model.
Whatever is not captured by this linear
predictive model is captured by the error.
So the trick is to use
arithmetic on the error to
help us compute the best
possible set of filters.
The capital En is the total error
in the current 20 millisecond
frame that we are operating on.
So if we differentiate En with respect to
each of the filter parameters a(i) and
then set the result to 0,
this will give us a set of linear
equations for p unknown a(i),
a set of p equations.
And these set of equations
we can solve using
linear algebra to get
the filter parameters.
So in the equation that I show here,
R(i) is the auto-correlation
function of the n samples
that we are working with.
Essentially, if you take this signal
accent and multiply with the shifted
version and add them all up,
you get the auto-correlation function.
And R0 is the maximum
value of the sequence of
the auto-correlation function and
it has the same periodicity
as the signal x of m.
So if xm,
the periodicity is the pitch period,
that is also reflected in
the auto-correlation function.
So using R(i),
we built this matrix R(|i- k|), and
this matrix has a special structure.
It's called Toeplitz matrix, in which each
descending diagonal has the same value and
it is symmetric.
So they are efficient
recursive solutions called
Levinson-Durbin equations to solve for a1,
then a2, then a3, so on, up to ap.
And that is how we get
the filter parameters.
[COUGH] Then we are left with
the gain of the filter G and
the actual input that we
provide to the filter.
Since we have already computed
the parameters a(i) and
R we can use the equation here
to estimate the value of g.
If we first estimate the pitch
period then the voiced,
unvoiced decision comes as a by-product.
So as I said before,
the auto-correlation function R(i)
is itself periodic, with the same
period as the input signal x.
So instead of operating on
the auto-correlation function,
which tends to be quite expensive
from the processing period,
we can actually low pass filter x of m and
down-sample [COUGH] maybe
to one kilohertz and
then find auto-correlation of this.
And then we can use the periodicity
to estimate the pitch.
That is another really clever solution,
in which it's called center clipping.
If the signal is peak-to-peak,
point, peak-to-peak towards,
then everything in the middle, lets say
half of the maximum, which I set it to 0.
So you just see some of the bumps.
And then we can compute
the auto-correlation
on the center clip signal, and
then look for the pitch barrier.
If we see a very strong peak
compared to the initial value or
0, we have voiced signal.
Un is a chain of impulses.
Otherwise, we just use random signal.
And using these values, a(i),
G, the pitch period, and
the voice unvoiced decision,
the decoder can reconstruct the signal.